# Python as a Windows service
Launch python executables as a Windows service

## Requirements:
### Pip install:
* pywin32 (windows service management)
* pyinstaller (for creating an executable file in windows)

### Pyinstaller:
To avoid error with win32timezone module pyinstaller should be run like this:

* *pyinstaller --onefile --hidden-import win32timezone YourPythonFile.py*

This will create one executable file with hidden import of win32timezone in your
project /dist directory. The win32timezone error can also be avoided by adding the following: *hiddenimports=['win32timezone']*
  in your YourPythonFile.spec which will be autogenerated after running the pyinstaller.

### Windows command prompt:
You must run windows command prompt from start menu as an administrator to avoid issues with windows services.
When command prompt is run, use the following syntax to enable service:

* *sc create YourServiceName binpath= "Path to your '.exe' file"*

Example: *sc create My_WinService binPath= "C:/Users/JohnDoe/Projects/My_script.exe"*

__Very important to have an empty space after 'binPath=' !!!__

You can also consider adding the *start=auto* argument so that the service will be automatically started.

*sc create My_WinService binPath= "C:/Users/JohnDoe/Projects/My_script.exe" start=auto*

### Sometimes services get stuck....

Sometimes, when service is run, and you stop it after some time, it can get stuck.

However, you can kill the service via command prompt:

* first you can find the process id (PID) by using the *"sc queryex"* command.
* when you know the PID, you can terminate process as follows:

*taskkill /pid "PID" /f* 

Example: *taskkill /pid 1234 /f*

### How about an email when the service is started and stopped?

It is always nice to know when you service is up and running and when it gets stopped. Therefore, we add a *'send email'* function here too.
If you run your executable on a remote server, this is handy tool. Also LOGS! We do like logs! Whenever your python executable running as a service encounters a problem, or if you want to check whether the service is doing its job - yes, logs!
